# Tiana Simovic's Project 1 Submission

Here is my experiment code for Project 1. This .ebz file is to be run in Experiment Builder (I believe you'll need the latest version to do so).

Once files have been extracted, makee sure to go to `Experiment > Test Run` to execute the code in dummy mode. 

All stimuli should be included in the library, but if for whatever reason they aren't, I've uploaded the data source (`datasource.xlsx`), audio (`audio`), and stimuli (`objects`) files in this repository.

Please let me know if there are any issues! Thanks!

*UPDATE:* there is an issue between the third and fourth trial, at least in list 1: In sentence 2, you're instructed to pick up one of the houses and move it to another area. Once you click on it, the cursor bounces to the top-left corner of the image and proceeds to the next trial. You can bypass this issue by waiting for S1 of the next trial (*"Move the bee to area 3"*) to finish, and simply place the bee in area 3 and click inside the box.


## ABOUT THE EXPERIMENT

Pronouns are employed in discourse in order to optimize communication by streamlining reference to objects that have already been talked about.  When we encounter a pronoun such as she, him, or them, we "resolve" it by linking it to an appropriate noun/concept within the discourse. However, we don't know exactly how this resolution process works in terms or the precise mental representations that are involved. There are two contrasting traditions that attempt to explain the process. In the memory reinstatement model, pronouns “reactivate” their antecedent in a memory record of past discourse that captures linguistic form and meaning (i.e., the noun/concept the pronoun is intended to refer to).  The pronoun serves as a trigger to scan memory representations for an antecedent that matches in terms of its person and number features. In contrast, in the attentional model, which are inspired by attempts to model pronoun interpretation in computational linguistics, the idea is that pronouns are linked to conceptual referents directly, without mediation by a “memory scanning” process.  On this account, a limited number of possibilities (items “under discussion”) is represented in an attentionally-limited set, and the pronoun is interpreted as a cue to refer to one of these entities. 

The purpose of my experiment is to find out which of the two traditions best explains the pronoun resolution process in instances that capitalize on certain kinds of ambiguity that have not been used before in experimental studies.
This experiment will examine how native English-speaking adult participants (*n* = 40) resolve ambiguous pronouns, particularly when items of interest (the pronouns’ antecedents) undergo property changes related to their relative position. The experiment has four conditions. There are 24 target trials and 42 filler trials. Each trial presents a novel 3(l)x4(w) grid, and its squares are consecutively numbered from 1-12 using numbers shaded grey in the background of each box. Six items reside within the grids of all trials - two items comprise the target pair (such as two identical books); two items comprise an irrelevant pair of items (such as a lowercase i and an uppercase i); and two items are unrelated single items (such as a fish and some broccoli). The participant views each display on a wide-screen computer monitor. On a given trial, the participant will hear two pre-recorded instructional sentences spoken by a native English speaker. Each sentence instructs the participant to perform an action on one of the items within the grid using a computer mouse. The participant’s gaze is measured from sentence audio onset to action performance in both trial sentences using eye-tracking techniques.

In a critical trial, the first pre-recorded sentence instructs the participant to move one member of the target pair to another square along the same row. Here, the item is referred to by its location relative to the other pair member (e.g., “Move the house on the *[left/right]* to area 1”). Once the participant completes the first action, they hear the second sentence. This sentence instructs them to move one member of the target pair - either the item from the previous sentence or the unmentioned item of the pair - to another area of the grid. The second sentence varies by condition. In two of the four conditions, the target item is referred to by a disambiguating noun phrase (e.g., “Now, move *[the same/the other]* house to area 4”). In the remaining two conditions, the target item is referred to by the indexical pronoun 'it' ("Now, move it...").

On the memory-based account, the pronoun should be disambiguated differently based on the transformation in the first sentence. For example, if 'the house on the left' was moved to a left-hand square, it retains its identity as 'the house on the left'. Thus if a memory record is activated upon hearing "...house on the left", the former referent could be selected.  However if 'the house on the left' was moved into a square to the right of the other house (and in principle becomes 'the house on the right'), the memory-based reactivation of “house on the left” as the pronoun is heard should interfere with the identification of the intended referent. Information about where participants look upon hearing the pronoun will point us towards an idea of which account best explains the ambiguous pronoun resolution process.

